---
description: Simple Storage Service
---

# S3

## S3 - Simple Storage Service - [https://aws.amazon.com/s3/](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)

* **S3 is object storage**
  * Can store any files
  * Size from 0 bytes to 5 TB
* **S3 is universal namespace**
  * Each bucket name must be unique across entire S3
* **Objects**
  * Key - name of the object
  * Value - data
  * Version ID
  * Metadata
  * Subresources
    * Access Control Lists \(ACLs\)
    * Torrents
* **Consistency**
  * **Read after write consistency** for PUTs of new objects
  * **Eventual consistency** for overwrite PUTs and DELETEs \(can take some time to propagate\)
* **Guarantees**
  * 99.99% availability
  * 99.999999999% durability \(11x9s - "eleven nines"\)
* **Features**
  * Tiered storage
  * Lifecycle management
  * Versioning
  * Encryption
  * MFA delete
  * Security with ACLs and Bucket Policies
* **Storage classes**
  * **S3 Standard** - 99.99% availability and 11x9s durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities, and designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.
  * **S3 IA \(Infrequent Access\)** - for data that is accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed.
  * **S3 One Zone IA** - cheaper than IA. For data that does not require multiple Availability Zone data resilience.
  * **S3 Intelligent Tiering** - optimizes cost by automatically moving objects into appropriate and most cost effective tier.
  * **S3 Glacier** - low cost storage for data archiving. Retrieval times configurable.
  * **S3 Glacier Deep Archive** - lowest cost with 12 hours of retrieval times.
* **S3 charges**
  * Storage
  * Requests
  * Storage Management Pricing
  * Data Transfer Pricing
  * Transfer Acceleration
  * Cross Region Replication Pricing
* **MFA Delete and Versioning**
  * S3 versioning enables you to revert to older versions of S3 objects.
  * Multiple versions of an object are stored in the same bucket.
  * Versioning also protects you from accidental / malicious deletes.
  * With versioning enabled, a DELETE action doesn't delete the object version, but applies a delete marker instead.
  * To permanently delete, provide the object Version ID in the delete request.
  * MFA Delete provides an additional layer of protection to S3 Versioning.
  * Once enabled, MFA Delete will enforce 2 things:
    * You'll need a valid code from your MFA device in order to permanently delete an object version.
    * MFA also needed to suspend / reactivate versioning on an S3 bucket.
* **Encryption**
  * in-transit - SSL / TLS
  * at rest - Server-side achieved by:
    * SSE-S3 - S3 managed key
    * SSE-KMS - Using Key Management Service
    * SSE-C - Server side encryption with customer provided key
  * client-side encryption
* **Cross-region replication**
  * Versioning must be enabled on both the source and the destination buckets
  * Regions must be unique
  * Existing files in the existing bucket are not replicated automatically
  * All subsequent updates will be replicated automatically
  * Delete markers are not replicated
  * Deleting individual versions or delete markers are not replicated
* **Lifecycle policies**
  * Automates moving your objects between different storage tiers
  * Can be used in conjunction with versioning
  * Can be applied to current versions and previous versions
* **Transfer Acceleration**
  * Files are uploaded to edge locations first, and then from edge locations propagated to S3
* Largest file that can be uploaded to S3 using PUT is 5Gb
* Key prefixing is no longer needed to improve performance on S3. S3 uses key-value to determine partition for objects.

**Enforcing encryption on S3 buckets**

* If the file is to be encrypted at upload time, the `x-amz-server-side-encryption` parameter will be included in the request header
* Two options are currently available:
  * `x-amz-server-side-encryption: AES256`
  * `x-amz-server-side-encryption: kms`
* When this parameter is included in the the header of the PUT request, it tells S3 to encrypt the object at the time of upload, using the specified encryption method.
* You can enforce the use of Server-Side Encryption by using a Bucket Policy which denies any S3 PUT request which does not include the `x-amz-server-side-encryption` parameter in the request header.

Example of the bucket policy that denies `PutObject` operations if server-side encryption header is not specified in the request:

```javascript
{
  "Id": "Policy1585498423331",
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "Stmt1585498419704",
      "Action": [
        "s3:PutObject"
      ],
      "Effect": "Deny",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::mybucketnamehere",
      "Condition": {
        "StringNotEquals": {
          "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": "aws:kms"
        }
      },
      "Principal": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

**S3 Batch operations**

Batch operations is a new feature that makes it simple to manage billions of objects stored in S3. Customers can make changes to object properties and metadata, and perform other storage management tasks - such as copying objects between buckets, replacing tag sets, modifying access controls, and restoring archived objects from Glacier - for any number of S3 objects in minutes.

#### Sharing S3 bucket across accounts

* Using bucket policies and IAM \(applies across the entire bucket\). Programmatic access only.
* Using bucket ACLs and IAM \(individual objects\). Programmatic access only.
* Cross-account IAM roles. Programmatic and Console access.

